# 6 Scripting

Moshell supports the use of variables and logical constructs. These can be used directly from the command line or within MoShell command files.

## 6.1 Preset Variables

The following variables are set immediately after MoShell startup:

- $logdir - path to the **moshell_logfiles/logs_moshell** directory
- $moshelldir - path to the moshell directory
- $gawk - path to gawk
- $ipaddress - IP address of the node that MoShell is connected to
- $moshell_version - the MoShell version
- $tempdir - path to the directory containing all temporary files for this moshell session. Gets deleted at the end of the session.
- $uname - output from the "uname -a" command, showing the operating system of the workstation running moshell.

The following variables are set after the MOM has been parsed:

- $momversion - the MOM version of the node (eg: RNC_NODE_MODEL_E_5_3, MGW_NODE_MODEL_R3_9_0)
- $cellomomversion - the CPP MOM version (3.3, 4.3, 5.1, etc) of the node
- $momdocnumber and $momdocrevision - the document number and revision of the MOM (eg: 15554-AXD10503/1 , rev: Z1)
- $background_pid - the process id of a process started into background from moshell command line, eg: l $moncommand > $logfile &
- $rats - the list of RATs supported by the node, eg G, L, W, N. Looks for presence of MOs such as BtsFunction=1, ENodeBFunction=1, etc. Set after running lt all.
- $gnbfunctions - the list of NR functions supported by the node, eg C (CUCP), U (CUUP), D (DU) . Set after running lt all.
- $ratsconfig - the LTE/NR deployment scenario (eg: TDD/FDD, LB/HB/MB). Set after running "cvls" .

These variables can be handy to have when a script needs to know what SW revision is running in the node or what kind of node it is.

The following variables are set after running certain MO commands:

- $mibprefix the MibPrefix of the FDN. Eg: SubNetwork=OSS,SubNetwork=RNC1,MeContext=RBS3
- $cppversion the CPP version of the node, according to the information in the current UpgradePackage.
- $nr_of_mos the number of MOs that were printed on screen by the last run of the pr/st/get/prod/fro/set/del/acc commands.
- $nr_of_mos_ok the number of MOs that were successfully operated upon by the last run of the set/del/acc commands.
- $command_result set after running the cr/pcr/pset/trun commands. Possible values: 0 for success, 1 for failure.
- $returncode set after running any moshell command. Possible values: 0 for success, 1 for failure.
- $action_result set after running the acc command. Contains the return value of the action.
- $nr_of_alarms the number of active alarms on the node. Set after the last run of the al command.
- $nr_of_cvs the number of CV:s that exist on the node, is set after the last run of the cvls command.
- $nr_of_scanners the number of scanners printed by the last run of the pst/pgets/pdel/pbl/pdeb commands.
- $nr_of_counter_instances the number of counter instances printed by the last run of the pgetsn command.
- $moncommand the command to start the monitor client after having run the "mon" command.

The following variables are set after running the commands bp/bo:

- $coremp_pos the positions of the core MPs, eg: 001000:001100
- $coremp_type the board types of the core MPs, eg: GPB53:GPB53
- $coremp_hw the HW platform of MSRBS Baseband board, eg G2, G3.0, G3.1, G4
- $nr_of_boards the number of boards belonging to a board group

The following variables are set after running the cvcu/cvls command:

- $nr_of_cvs the number of CV’s that exist on the node.
- $currentUP the product number and revision of the UpgradePackage shown in the field "Current UpgradePkg"
- $currentSW the release name (eg L17A.3) of the UpgradePackage shown in the field "Current UpgradePkg"
- $swName the product name of the active SwVersion (eg MSRBS, vRC, vPP, etc). Usually corresponds to the node type. Only applicable to COM nodes.

The following variables are set after running one of the l+/u+/u-/u!/diff commands:

- $logfile the logfile that is currently open. Set immediately after executing the l+ command, stays set even after l- and will only be reset the next time a new logfile is open with l+
- $undologfile the logfile used by the undo command. Set immediately after executing the u+/u+s command, stays set even after u- and will only be reset the next time a new undo mode is started with u+/u+s.
- $undocommandfile the command file that can be used to undo the commands that were run between u+/u+s and u-. Set immediately after executing the u- command.
- $undodelcommandfile - the file containing the delete commands. Only applicable to simulated undo mode u+s
- $undotrunfile / $undoxmlfile - the path of the file generated by the u! command
- $diffcsvfile / $diffcmdfile - the path of the result file and command file generated by the diff command

The following variable is set after having logged on to the node via telnet/SSH or FTP/SFTP.

- $password

The contents of the variable can not be printed, it will only show if it’s empty or not. By setting this variable to empty (by doing: $password = ), this will force MoShell to check the password again. Useful in case the password has changed on the node during the MoShell session.

The $nr_of_vars variable is set after running the pv command.

This variable indicates the number of scripting variables that were printed in the last pv printout. By using pv together with a filtering pattern (eg: pv $table), it is possible to find out the number of variables that had matched the pattern, for instance the number of elements in a hashtable.

The $nr_of_lines variable is set after using the functions "readfile" or "testfile".

After using the function "testfile", this variable is set to 0 if the file does not exist and to 1 if the file exists.

After using the function "readfile", this variable is set to 0 if the file does not exist and to the number of liens in the file if the file exists. The difference between testfile and readfile is that testfile won’t actually read the file, it will just check if the file exists whereas readfile will test the file, then read it.

Example1:

$lineContent = testfile(/path/to/myfile) if $nr_of_lines = 0 l echo "File not found!" return fi

Example2:

$lineContent = readfile(/path/to/myfile) if $nr_of_lines = 0 l echo "File not found!" return fi for $lineNumber = 1 to $nr_of_lines if $lineContent\[$lineNumber\] ~ thispattern print We found it! The line is $lineNumber.

return fi done

Example (list all scripting variables currently set via pv):

- $logdir = /home/eanzmagn/moshell_logfiles/logs_moshell
- $momversion = RNC_NODE_MODEL_E_5_3
- $moshelldir = /home/eanzmagn/tools/moshell
- $cellomomversion = 4.3.1
- $gawk = /home/eanzmagn/tools/moshell/gawk
- $ipdaddress = 10.1.128.17
- $moshell_version = 6.1
- $nr_of_mos = 1
```text
- $password = \*\*\*\*\*\*\*

```
## 6.2 Variable assignment

A variable value can be assigned in six ways, see below.

A variable can also be unassigned, using the unset command.

By using the command unset small, all variables are unset, except:

- the "system" variables ($gawk, $ipaddress, $password, $moshell_version, $moshelldir, $logdir, $momversion, $cellomomversion)
- the "global" variable(s) (ie: assigned with the ":=" sign, instead of "=").

By using the command unset all, all variables are unset except the "system" variables.

NOTE: It is always good practice to unset a variable as soon as it is not needed anymore since having too many variables defined slows down the processing of the command line. It is also good to do unset all at the beginning and end of a command file (and before doing the return command) in order to avoid interference from un-needed variables. See the script examples in **moshell/commonjars/scripts**

To print all currently assigned variables, use the command printvar. To just print one variable, type: pv <pattern> (where the pattern matches the variable(s) to print)

print "$variable"

The variable value can be assigned in six ways:

1.  From the command line.

The variable to be assigned is on the left side of the equal sign and the value is on the right side. Each element must be separated by spaces. Example:

$i = 3

$node = RNC

$password =

By running password = this sets the password to an empty value and will force MoShell to ask for the password again.

1.  At moshell startup, using the -v option. In this case, the "$" sign should be omitted. (otherwise it gets interpreted by the Unix shell) Example: moshell -v upmo=CXP9011008_R1A03,ftpserv=10.1.0.16,secure_shell=1,secure_ftp=1 rnc34}

In this case, we can see that scripting variables ($upmo and $ftpserv) and user variables (secure_shell and secure_ftp) have been mixed in the same statement. This is OK because any variable that is not recognised as a user variable will be treated as a scripting variable.

1.  From the following commands: get, pget, fro, ip2d/d2ip, h2d/d2h, uv

The mo-filter and attribute-filter must be specified, then comes the redirection sign (>), then the variable name. If several attributes are printed, only the last attribute value gets assigned into the variable. Examples:

1.  get 0 productName > $nodeType (result: $nodeType = RBS3202)
    2.  get ethernetlink ipaddress > $ipaddress (result: $ipaddress = 10.1.128.17)
    3.  On CPP node: get configurationversion currentupgrade > $currentUp (result: $currentUp = UpgradePackage=CXP9011123_R12F)
    4.  get $currentUp administrativedata > $swRev (result: $swRev = Struct{5} >>> 1.productNumber = CXP9011123 >>> 2.productRevision = R12F etc.)
    5.  pget EUtranCellFDD=1 pmRaSuccCbra > $pmra (result: $pmra = 157)
    6.  lfro subrack=ms,slot=1,pluginunit=1$ ^r > $froid (result: $froid = 0)
    7.  d2ip -4127129085 > $ip_addr (result: $ip_addr = 10.1.2.3)
    8.  h2d 0xa > $res (result: $res = 10)
    9.  uv ^credential > $credential (result: /home/ericsson/moshell/commonjars/host.p12)

1.  Using an arithmetic operation

The following numeric operations are supported:

- **\+** addition
        - **\-** substraction
        - **\*** muliplication
        - **/** division
        - **% modulo** (returns the remainder of an integer division operation)

**Examples:**

1.  $i = 1 (result: $i=1)
    2.  $i = $i + 1 (result: $i=2)
    3.  $j = $i \* 3 (result: $j=6)
    4.  $k = $i \* $j (result: $k=12)
    5.  $l = $i / $j (result: $l=0.333)
    6.  $m = $k % 5 (result: $m=2)

Note: Only one operation per line is allowed. A space must exist between each element of the operation. There cannot be more than two members in the operation (ie: $i = $j + $k ==> OK. But $i = $j + $k + $l ===> NOTOK)

1.  Using the output from a Unix command:

The Unix command must be surrounded by back-quotes (‘). Variables can be used within the Unix command. Examples:

• Example

$date = ‘date +%y%m%d-%H%M‘ (result: $date = 040930-1745) get ethernetlink ipaddress > $ipaddress

(result: $ipaddress = 10.1.128.17)

$logfile = $ipaddress_$date.log

(result: $logfile = 10.1.128.17_040930-1745.log) l+m $logfile

(open a logfile, don’t display anything on the screen) te log read l-

(close logfile)

$errors = ‘grep -c ERROR $logfile‘

(result: $errors = the number of ERRORs found in the logfile) l rm $logfile

(remove the logfile)

• Example: Making a cv that has the same name as the current startable cv but the last digit is incremented by 1

lt configurationversion get configuration startable > $startable (result: $startable = RBS3045_P2.1.5_CU3_A_01) $cvname = ‘$gawk -v cvname=$startable ’BEGIN { print gensub(/..$/,"",1,cvname) sprintf("%02s",substr(cvname,length(cvname)-1)+1) }’‘ cvms $cvname

(result: $cvname = RBS3045_P2.1.5_CU3_A_02)

1.  Using result from a unix command

If the built-in function system is used instead of the back-quotes (‘) then the exit code of the unix command is saved to the variable (instead of its output).

Example:

$result = system(cp $file1 $file2)

(result: 0 if the copy was successful, or some other number if the copy failed)

1.  Using String manipulation

The following string operations are supported: _concatenation_ and _substitution_ / _replacement_.

The concatenation is performed by juxtaposing the strings. Syntax for concatenation: $var = string1string2string3 (the strings are concatenated without space in between) or $var = string1 string2 string3 (the strings are concatenated with spaces in between)

Syntax for concatenation:

1.  $var = string1string2string3 (the strings are concatenated without space in between)
    2.  $var = string1 string2 string3 (the strings are concatenated with spaces in between)

The substitution/replacement is performed using the -s switch to specify the string to substitute and the -r switch to specify the string it should be replaced with. If the -r switch is not used, then the string will be replaced by nothing. If the -g switch is specified, then all instances of the string to substituted, otherwise, only the first instance.

Syntax for substitution/replacement:

a) $var = origString -s strToSubstitute \[-r strToReplaceItWith \[-g\]\] Regular expressions can be used in the string manipulations. Examples:

$var = abc_defabc ghi

$var1 = $var -s abc

Result: $var1 = \_defabc ghi, only first instance of **abc** was replaced

$var2 = $var -s \\x20

Result: $var2 = abc_defabcghi, the space sign was removed

$var3 = $var -s abc -g

Result: $var3 = \_def ghi, all instances of **abc** were replaced

$var4 = $var -s abc -r xyz

(result: $var4 = xyz_defabc ghi, first instance of **abc** was replaced)

$var5 = $var -s abc -r xyz -g

(result: $var5 = xyz_defxyz ghi, all instances of **abc** were replaced with **xyz**)

$var6 = $var -s a.\*c -r xyz

(result: $var6 = xyz ghi, the regular expression **a.\*c** was replaced with **xyz**)

$var7 = $varABC$var6

(result: $var7 = abc_defabc ghiABCxyz ghi, the three strings **$var**, **ABC** and **$var6** have been concatenated)

$var8 = $var ABC $var6

(result: $var8 = abc_defabc ghi ABCxyz ghi, there are spaces in between the three strings)

Note: if more advanced string manipulation is needed, it is always possible to use an external program such as gawk to do the string manipulation. See the example above about using Unix programs.

8\. Using output from a predefined function

Currently, the following functions exist:

- fdn(proxy) input is the proxy id, output is the FDN
- ldn(proxy) input is the proxy id, output is the LDN
- rdn(proxy) input is the proxy id, output is the RDN
- motype(proxy) input is the proxy id, output is the MO type
- proxy(string) input is the LDN or FDN (NOT RDN!), output is the proxy id
- readinput(string) input is a prompt that should appear on the screen, so that the user can input an answer which will then be assigned to the variable.
- readinputsilent(string) same as readinput() but without echoing the user input. useful for entering passwords.
- readfile(file) input is a filename. Each line of the file is assigned into an element of the hashtable into which we have assigned the result of the function. If the file is not found, the variable $nr_of_lines is set to 0, otherwise it is set to the number of lines in the file. Note, this should not be used on large files as it will slow down things very much.
- testfile(file) input is a filename. If the file is not found, the variable $nr_of_lines is set to 0, otherwise it is set to 1.
- testzip(zipfile) input is a filename. If the file is a valid zipfile, the function returns 1. If the file is tarfile (but with .zip at the end, eg a CV.zip generated from EvoC8300), then the function returns 2. Else (file not found or zipfile corrupted), the function returns 0.
- split(string) The string is split into the array specified on the left side of the equal sign (see example below). The separator used to split the string can be specified in the variable "$split_separator". By default it is a space. If the

$split_separator has been changed and needs to be reset to the default value, just run the command "unset

$split_separator". The number of elements in the array is stored in the variable $split_last

- mod2nr(string) Convert a RncModule name into a module number. Eg: mod2nr(MS-6-1) returns 1061 , mod2nr(ES-1-24-0) returns 241 .
- check_ip_contact(ipaddress,port) Check connectivity to a given ip address and tcp port. Returns 0 if ok, or 1 if not ok.
- asort($table,$sortedtable) Creates a new table $sortedtable containing the values of an existing table $table, sorted in ascending alphanumerical order. The function returns the number of elements in $sortedtable.

Usage: $n = asort($table,$sortedtable) . See example 5 below.

Example 1:

lt iublink ma iub iub for $mo in iub $mordn = rdn($mo) if $mordn ~ 1023 lcc $mordn lbl $mordn, fi done

Example 2:

$var = readinput(Please confirm \[y/n\]: ) if $var !~ ^y return fi

Example 3:

$table = readfile(/path/to/myfile) for $lineNumber = 1 to $nr_of_lines print $table\[$lineNumber\]

$word = split($table\[$lineNumber\]) if $word\[1\] ~ ^#

$nr_of_comments = $nr_of_comments + 1 fi unset $word unset $table\[$lineNumber\] done

(Note: by unsetting the entry we’ve just read - provided we don’t need it anymore - will make things faster)

Example 4:

Logging in to an unknown node with moshell -n option (no ip connectivity check) and checking the type of node The loop is intended to keep checking if the node happens to be down at the time of the check.

for 10

$var80 = check_ip_contact($ipaddress,80)

$var9830 = check_ip_contact($ipaddress,9830)

$var4912 = check_ip_contact($ipaddress,4192) if $var4192 = ok uv comcli=21 uv username=expert $password = expert break else if $var9830 = ok uv comcli=11 uv username=root $password = root break

else if $var80 = ok uv comcli=0 break else wait 30

$i = $i + 1

fi done

Example 5:

A table $t is defined with following values: $t\[0\]=2 ; $t\[1\]=bye ; $t\[a\]=3 ; $t\[b\]=hello

Execute the command: $n = asort($t,$s)

This will return $n=4 and define a table $s with values: $s\[1\]=2 ; $s\[2\]=3 ; $s\[3\]=bye ; $s\[4\]=hello Example: The purpose of the little moshell script below is to make a customized CV name like: date_nodeType_swRev

cvls

$date = ‘date +%y%m%d‘ (result: $date = 040930) get 0 productName > $nodeType (result: $nodeType = RBS3202) $nodeType = $nodeType -s RBS (result: $nodeType = 3202) get configurationversion currentupgrade > $currentUp (result: $currentUp = UpgradePackage=CXP901913%2_R12N) get $currentUp administrativedata > $swRev

(result: $swRev = Struct{5} >>> 1.productNumber = CXP901913/2 >>>

2.productRevision = R12N >>> 3.productName = CXP901913%2_R12N ....)

$swRev=‘gawk -v currentsw="$swRev" ’BEGIN{ swrev=gensub(/\\r|\\n/,"","g",currentsw); print gensub(/^.\*Revision = | >>> 3.product.\*$/,"","g",swrev) }’‘

(result: $swRev = R12N)

cvms $date_$nodeType_$swRev (result: cvms 040930_3202_R12N )

## 6.3 Hashtables (arrays)

The index and the value of the hashtable can be a variable, a constant, or a mix of both.

All variable assignment methods described in Section 6.2 apply for assigning values into hashtables as well.

To print a hashtable, do: pv <table>

**Examples:**

Assigning constants into a hashtable

\>> $table\[1\] = hello

\>> $table\[2\] = hej

\>> $table\[hoho\] = 5

\>> pv tab (result printout:)

$table\[hoho\] = 5

$table\[1\] = hello

$table\[2\] = hej

Assigning variables into a hashtable:

\>> $mo = AtmPort=MS-6-1

\>> $proxy = proxy($mo)

\>> $proxylist\[$mo\] = $proxy

\>> $mo = AtmPort=MS-6-2

\>> $proxy = proxy($mo)

\>> $proxylist\[$mo\] = $proxy

\>> pv proxylist (result printout:)

$proxylist\[AtmPort=MS-6-1\] = 103

$proxylist\[AtmPort=MS-6-2\] = 112

More examples on how to use hashtables are described in Section 6.5.

## 6.4 If/Else constructs

The if statement must be followed by a _condition_. The comparison operator of the condition must be surrounded by spaces. Zero or more else if statements can be used after the if statement. Zero or one else statements can be after the if or else if statements.

The end of the if/else structure must be specified with a fi statement. Each statement must be on its own line and can be followed by one or more commands. Several conditions can be combined, using the logical AND (&&), or the logical OR (||). Any number of AND/OR can be put on a line but NOT BOTH on the same line.

Grouping conditions with brackets is NOT supported.

The return command can be used to exit from the command file in case a certain condition is met. Type h return for more information on how to use this command.

Syntax examples:

1.  if <condition> command1 command2 fi
2.  if <condition1> || <condition2> command1 command2 else command3 fi
3.  if <condition> && <condition2> && <condition3> command1 else if <condition4> command2 else command3 fi

A condition can use the following comparison operators:

- \= equals
- ~ matches (as in pattern match)
- != is not equal to
- !~ does not match
- \> greater than
- < less than
- \>= greater than or equal to
- <= less than or equal to

The words around the operator can be either a variable or a single word but NOT a string containing spaces or a concatenation of a variable and string. Following conditions are syntaxically correct:

if $var1 = $var2 if mystring ~ $var if 10 > 3 if $i < 2

Following conditions are NOT syntaxically correct and will return unexpected results:

if mystring_$var1 ~ $var2 if mystring is this ~ your string

A condition can also just contain one variable, in which case it will check if the variables exists. The words around the operator can be either a variable or a single word but NOT a string containing spaces or a concatenation of a variable and string. Following conditions are syntaxically correct:

if $var1 = $var2 if mystring ~ $var if 10 > 3 if $i < 2

Following conditions are NOT syntaxically correct and will return unexpected results:

if mystring_$var1 ~ $var2 if mystring is this ~ your string

A condition can also just contain one variable, in which case it will check if the variables exists.

Example to check if a variable $var exists. If $ exists (i.e. has any value set) then it will do something..

if $var ...do something fi

Example to check for node type and see attenuation accordingly:

get 0 productname > $nodeType

if $nodeType ~ 3202 || $nodeType ~ 3104 get feeder attenuation set feeder attenuation 4 else if $nodeType ~ 3101 get feeder attenuation set feeder attenuation 16 else

get feeder attenuation fi

## 6.5 For constructs

The parameter to the for construct can be:

1.  ever - to repeat the loop an infinite number of times
2.  <numberOfIterations> - to repeat the loop a specific number of times
3.  $mo in <moGroup> - to run the body of the loop on each MO of the specified moGroup. MO groups are created using ma/lma. See h ma (Section 4.1.10) for more info.
4.  $board in <boardGoup> - to run the body of the loop on each board of the specified board group. Board groups are crated using ba/ba. See h bo (Section 4.3.18) for more info.
5.  $var in $table for each iteration of the loop, $var will cycle through the index values of the hashtable $table
6.  $var = $start to $stop$var is assigned every integer value between $start and $stop. $start and $stop can be variables or constants but must be an integer. If $start is smaller than $stop than the order will be ascending, otherwise it will be descending.

The end of the for structure must be specified with a done statement.

The wait command can be used in the body of the loop to specify a delay to wait in between each iteration. The delay can be in seconds, minutes, hours, or even ROP periods. (Type h wait, Section 4.3.53 for info.)

Do not use the sleep command as this will result in hanging if the loop is aborted.

The loop can be aborted any time by typing ctrl-z , then touch <stopfile>, then fg. The <stopfile> path is shown in the window title bar. Type h ctrl-z for more info about aborting.

The break command can be used within the loop to exit from the loop.

Note: Regardless of where the break is located in the loop, the current loop iteration will be completed before breaking out of the loop.

Syntax examples:

1.  for ever command1 command2 done
2.  for <numberOfTimes> command1 wait <numberOfSeconds> done
3.  for $mo in <moGroup> get $mo <attribute> > $variable $variable1 = ....

set $mo <attribute> $variable1 etc... done

1.  for $board in <boardGroup> bl $board facc $board restart 0 1 wait 10 deb $board lhsh $board vii done
2.  for $proxy in $proxytable bl $proxy st $proxy deb $proxy st $proxy

get $proxy operational > $opstate if $opstate != 1 break fi done

1.  for $var = $maxproxy to $minproxy del $var done

for $var = 1 to 6

te e trace$min process done

Practical examples:

1\. Checking the progress of a UP installation, every 10 seconds. Break from the loop if the result is

1 (INSTALL_COMPLETED), and continue with upgrade action. Abort the command file if the result is

6 (INSTALL_NOT_COMPLETED)

lt upgrade acc upgradepackage=xxx nonblockinginstall for ever $return = 0

wait 10 get upgradepackage=xxx state > $upstate if $upstate ~ ^1 break else if $upstate ~ ^6 $return = 1 break fi done

if $return = 1

return fi

acc upgradepackage=xxx upgrade

1.  Run a testcase 50 times

for 50 run testcase_3.1.1.cmd wait 2m done

1.  Increase the primaryCpichPower by 0.1 dBm on each UtranCell

lt ^utrancell ma cell ^utrancell for $mo in cell get $mo primarycpichpower $pich

$pich = $pich + 1 set $mo primarycpichpower $pich done

1.  restart all boards in a board group

ba spb spb for $board in spb facc $board restart 0 1 done

1.  Save the fRO values of all programs into a table and then restart every program

lma programs_on_slot_19 subrack=ms,slot=19,.\*program for $prog in programs_on_slot_19

$i = $i + 1

fro $prog ^res > $frolist\[$i\] done

for $fro in $frolist restartObj pgm $fro done

1.  Restart some boards in a specific order

for $var = 20 to 14 $board = 00$var00 facc $board restart 0 1 done

## 6.6 User-defined functions

Users can define their own functions, using the func/endfunc construct.

If the function is called with arguments, these are assigned to the variables $1, $2, $3, etc The variable $0 is set to the whole line contents.

Example:

1\. Define the function (the function definitions can be run in a different command file)

Here we are defining a function which checks the state of the mirrored disks and returns once the disks are in sync

func check_disk_state

#if $1 is undefined or different to an integer value

#then we set it to 10 seconds

if $1 ~ ^\[0-9\]+$ $wait_interval = $1 else

$wait_interval = 10 fi for ever wait $wait_interval l+om $tempdir/diskstate lh coremp mirror s l-

$res = ‘grep -c "Peer Disk Status: \*Valid" $tempdir/diskstate if $res > 0

break fi done endfunc

func waitforuser

$date = ‘date "+%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S"‘ for ever

$reply = readinput(Waiting from \[$date\]. Type "y" when ready: ) if $reply ~ ^\[yY\] break fi done

$date = ‘date "+%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S"‘ print "Finished waiting at \[$date\]" endfunc endfunc

2\. Call the function Here we have made a small script which makes use of our user-defined function.

First we are running a file containing all the definitions for our user-defined functions.

(Note that the functions can also be defined within the same script, but by keeping all functions in a separate file means that several command files can use the same functions)

We have called the function check_disk_state with an argument "5" which in this case will be used as the

"$wait_interval" parameter in the function

run ~/myfunctions_define.mos for ever check_disk_state 5 waitforuser facc 0 manualrestart 0 0 0 pol done

## 6.7 Nesting for and if statements

It is possible to nest one or more if/else statement within a loop statement and vice-versa. But it is currently not possible to nest an if/else statement within an if/else statement and a loop statement within another loop statement.

The current workaround is to put the for/if constructs into functions. See Section 6.6 for more info on functions.

Example:

The following script starts the install, then checks the state of the install every 10 seconds. Once the upgradepackage is installed, it starts the upgrade. Then it checks the state again and once the upgrade is in state **awaitingconfirm**, it confirms the upgrade.

$UP = upgradepackage=CXP9011123_R12F acc $UP nonblockinginstall for ever wait 10 get $UP state > $state if $state ~ ^1

break fi done get $UP state > $state if $state ~ ^1

acc $UP upgrade fi wait 120 for ever wait 10 get $UP state > $state if $state ~ ^3

break fi done

if $state ~ ^3 acc $UP confirmupgrade fi

Some more examples:

1.  Example to check the mirror stat status of the node (i.e. to check whether the passive FTC MP is ready to take over or not)

for ever board_status -d 00 10 -c "mirror stat" | tee tmpfile.tmp board_status -d 00 11 -c "mirror stat" | tee -a tmpfile.tmp $tmp = ‘grep -c "Peer Disk Status: Valid" tmpfile.tmp‘ if $tmp > 0

break else wait 60 fi done

1.  Example to check if an upgrade is complete (i.e. the upgradepackage is in state 3)

wait 300 #give it some time to run first for ever pol 1 1

get upgradepackage=mypkg state > $state if $state ~ ^1 break #upgrade failed else if $state ~ ^3 break #upgrade complete fi wait 60 done

## 6.8 Example scripts

Example scripts can be found under **moshell/commonjars/scripts** and **moshell/examples/scripting/**

Note two types of comments can be used in scripts:

- _visible comments_ start with the "#" sign. These comments are printed on the screen while the script is executing.
- _invisible comments_ start with the "//" sign. These comments are not printed on the screen.
